=XLSX2LaTeX
Convert excel-files (xlsx) to LaTeX-tabulars.

Details see XLSX2LaTeX::Excel


==Why?
This gem is inpired by a question at 
stackexchange[http://softwarerecs.stackexchange.com/questions/2428/program-to-convert-excel-2013-spreadsheets-to-latex-tables].
My first impression was:
It should be easy to write such a converter with ruby.

This gem is a quick try to solve the problem.
It uses roo[https://github.com/roo-rb/roo] to parse an excel and convert
the result to LaTeX.

==How to use
There is a command line version for this gem.

For a help, please use 
  bin/xlsx2latex.rb -h

output[bin/readme_txt.html]


==Philosophy
This gem allows a fast way to convert an Excel-Sheet to a LaTeX-tabular.

It is not expected, that you get a ready-to-use-result.

* The column format is 'c' for each column
* Text formats are respected if the are defined fo the whole cell.
* No gridlines are analyzed. Please set your \hlines yourself.

==Limitation
There are some limitations:

* Only tabular-like sheets are converted (e.g. no graphics)
* \multicolumn: The detection of multicolumns is a kind of guessing.
* \multirow: Not supported

===Format

* Bold, italic... are only detected if the whole cell is formated.
* Gridlines are not analyzed.



=Similar tools
==excel2latex
* http://www.ctan.org/pkg/excel2latex

Excel-Makros to build LaTeX-table. 
Works until Excel version 2010

==maketable
* http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/support/maketable

MAKETABLE works with copy and paste. You mark your table in the 
respective Windows program, hit copy, change to MAKETABLE and 
click the Paste-Button. This pastes your data into a data grid. 
When you click the TEX-Output-Button, the information in the data 
grid is converted to the respective tabular structure, which is 
displayed in a new window. Click the Mark all-Button and the 
Copy-Button to copy the tabular structure to the clipboard, change 
to your TeX-editor and paste it in.

==xl2latex
* http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/support/xl2latex

Works only with Excel97 (and hopefully above, you never know what Microsoft does)

Import xl2latex.bas in Visual Basic and save as xl2latex.xls (or any other filename).

To do so: open a new file or a file with all your macros
          Extras->Macro->Visual Basic-Editor
          then in Visual Basic: File->File import
          close Visual Basic
          save the file (File->Save As or File->Save, what you want)
          close the file
          now you should have a new button "LaTeX export" in your "LaTeX" toolbar


==Online tools
===http://www.tablesgenerator.com/
With http://www.tablesgenerator.com/ you can create empty templates for LaTeX tables.

===http://ericwood.org/excel2latex/

Drag any .xlsx file onto the page to extract data and convert it into a LaTeX table.

* Javascript
* No conversion of special characters
* Only default sheet

=====...

